# Dragons
Dragons are massive winged reptiles capable of incredible feats of elemental magic. While some have been tamed historically, by figures like [Lena Warmheart](../people/individuals/lean_warmheart.md), they generally remain a wild race uninterested in interaction with the 'lesser races'. Most dragons live solitary lives well away from civilization, roosting in remote mountains or islands where they can rest undisturbed. Most of the time dragons remain in hibernation, breaking only to hunt. Around once every decade or two, Dragons find themselves driven by an intense desire to reproduce. Dragons do not take a mate to reproduce, and indeed are entirely incapable due to every Dragon being female. Instead they reproduce using magic rituals. To reproduce they search the land for sources of intense magical concentration, both natural and unnatural, which they harness within their body. Once the Dragon has enough magic, it returns to its nest and casts spells which create several new dragon eggs. The magic sustaining the young dragon eggs is draining and requires constant replenishment. While this can be provided by the mother, Dragons usually prefer to stockpile magically infused items to serve as an ambient source of magical exposure. Eggs are often cradled in the middle of a 'hoard' of magically rich items, which provide enough background energy to sustain the lifemaking process. It is known that variations in the magic provided at this stage are responsible for the variations found in Dragons. After 14-18 months, the eggs hatch. The mother takes care of the young dragons for another 2 years until they grow large enough to leave the nest.
