# Kobolds
Small scaled humanoids that stand about 2/3rds the height of a man. Kobolds are one of the native races of Adanica, and have existed alongside humans, bunnies, and elves for milennia. Traditionally kobolds have favored styles of government based on a consensus of elder leaders. Before the time of [Bathem](../people/individuals/bathem.md) Kobolds were dispersed across Adanica. Most Kobolds were part of tribes, often organized on the basis of scale color. These colors were core to identity, but how exactly they manifested varied between groups. Some stricter tribes made scale color a requirement for full participation in society, either expelling those of other colors, or creating a hierarchical system based on color. Others treated color more symbolically, either by allowing Kobolds (or other races) with the 'wrong' scale color to paint their scales, or by ritually changing ones color if they met certain conditions. 

This practice began to die out during the period from ~300 BB - 0BB. In most of Adanica this was due to the conquest of dozens of Kobold tribes by the expanding Ruman Empire. The humans of Rum had little interest in scale color, and attempted to stamp out the practice to reduce conflict between their Kobold subjects. Multiple decrees were passed outlawing color discrimination over the centuries, though the mere existance of so many decrees proves that they must not have been completely successful. The other major event was the conclusion of the Color Wars (-90BB - -53BB) in They Valley, which contained the largest concentration of Kobolds in Adanica. During this period conflict between Kobold and Human tribes intensified in The Valley. The pressure of war lead to the creation of a major tribal confederacy that united various Humans and Kobolds under the 'All-Colored Council'. This council forbid the practice of color discrimination and created the beginnings of centralized government in The Valley. The tribes still practicing color discrimination were defeated and absorbed into the council. 

During the time of Bathem, the All-Colored Council became dominated by the one-Kobold rule of [Glimmerscale.](../people/individuals/glimmerscale.md), who integrated much of The Valley into the Ruman Empire. During this period most Kobolds within Rum migrated to The Valley, attempting to escape the instability brought on by the [Ruman-Bunny Wars](../events/ruman_bunny_wars.md). The Republic of Colors itself became a cosmopolitian society, home to large minorities of every major race in Adanica.  This new province alternated between fighting and cooperating with Bathem, with the Kobolds eventually delaying his apotheosis through a counter-ritual which disrupted Bathems own efforts. Later Glimmerscale would reorganize the province into the Republic of Colors, and lead efforts to colonize much of the North Sea and Dargian Isles. Following the Sun-Death, Kobolds would choose to escape the freezing earth by building the great underground city of Mountainhome. Heated by lava tubes, fed by fungus farms, and protected by the worlds first anti-magic shield - Mountainhome was supposed to have become a permanent refuge for the Republic of Colors. 

The eventual breakdown in order in Mountainhome, followed by the Sundering, resulted in the dramatic collapse in Adanica's Kobold population - and small bands of survivors formed new tribes in the Dargian Isles. It would take centuries for the Kobold race to recover it's former status within Alyria, with some tribes even reverting back to color discrimination (though the practice has once again died out). 

Today Kobold society tends to be more insular than the old Republic of Colors, with most countries containing only small minorities from other races - who often don't enjoy full civic participation. Kobolds are immensely proud of their past Republic however, and while most races look to Rum or Bunearica as a source of ancient legitimacy, Kobold rulers instead turn to the Republic of Colors (or it's leader Glimmerscale) for legitimacy. Interpretations of this legacy differ however. Some see the widespread democratic participation of the Republic as it's chief virtue, and generally advocate for republican rule. Others however see the earlier phase of 'One-Kobold Rule' by Glimmerscale as the golden age, with the introduction of democracy being the chief cause of it's decline. Conflict between Glimmer-Kings (who emulate dictatorial one-Kobold rule) and Republicans (who emulate democratic rule) is a source of major instability in most Kobold countries. In the worst cases these conflicts have lasted for decades, and have seen rival factions engaged in vicious cycles of purges, counter-purges, coups, and revolutions. This instability has lead to the conquest or collapse of several major Kobold countries. However this process has also seen Kobold states emerge with extremely high levels of civic involvement, benefical political competition, and meritocratic institutions which allow the most competent in Kobold society to rise to the top. Unlike in human lands, it is hardly unheard of for a common shepard or sailor to one day rule an entire Kingdom. 
